DOCS-8352 ACM: site structure page (#153)
mulesoft/docs-api-community-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/site-structure.adoc

= API Community Site Structure
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

> 

Reviewer: In the following paragraph, change all live links to plain text and move them to "See Also," which we are likely to change to something like Related Information or Supporting Information.
Live links in prereq. only, for the most part; see linking guidelines.

Author: Moved links in this paragraph to "See Also".

The structure of your API community is defined by your xref:customize.adoc[community pages],
the xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc[Lightning components] contained in each, and the links between them.
You can define your own site structure and user journeys throughout your API community with these
elements, tailored to your specific needs and desires.

A typical API community has the following site structure:

image::site-structure.png[API Community Manager site structure]

> * Home page: Contains welcome information (*Rich Text* component or *HTML* component), selected APIs and API groups (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-carousel[API Carousel] component), news and announcements (*CMS Collection* component), and the main search bar (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#acm-search-box[ACM Search Box] component).

Reviewer: GLOBALLY, please follow our bullet-list and numbered step style of breaking after the term or first sentence:
```suggestion
* Home page +
Contains welcome information (*Rich Text* component or *HTML* component), selected APIs and API groups (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-carousel[API Carousel] component), news and announcements (*CMS Collection* component), and the main search bar (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#acm-search-box[ACM Search Box] component).
```
Also, similarly replace the links with plain titles or text.

Author: Done.

> * Login page: Allows a member to log in to your community, or go to the registration page if they are not already a member (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#login-form[Login Form] component).

Reviewer: ditto:
```suggestion
* Login page +
Allows a member to log in to your community, or go to the registration page if they are not already a member (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#login-form[Login Form] component).
```

Author: Done.

> * Registration page: Allows a guest user to register as a member in your community (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#self-register[Self Register] component).

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Done.

> * Search results page: Shows results of searches in the community (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#acm-search-results[ACM Search Results] component).

Reviewer: ditto

Reviewer: I'll stop marking this.
But I looked at the print view for this PR, and I see there is an issue coming up, with one of these list items being a topic unto itself. We should brainstorm how to avoid this....

Author: Done.

+
Each search result links to the appropriate page based on the type of the element, such as a content article page, an API details page, or others.
* News list page: Contains a list of the different content articles, such as news or announcements (*CMS Collection* component).
* News detail page: Displays the full content of a specific content article (*CMS Single Item* component).
* APIs and API groups catalog page: Contains the full catalog of APIs and API groups available in your community, for consumers to explore and discover (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-catalog[API Catalog] component).
* API and API groups details page: Displays the documentation and technical content of an API or API group, including the API console and a way to request access to the API.
+

> The content of this page is tailored to the type of object being accessed using page variations. You can find more information in the Salesforce Community Cloud documentation page https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=community_builder_manage_pages_overview.htm&type=5[Manage Your Community's Pages and Their Properties in Experience Builder, role=external, window=_blank].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content of this page is tailored to the type of object being accessed by using _page variations_. You can find more information in the Salesforce Community Cloud documentation page https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=community_builder_manage_pages_overview.htm&type=5[Manage Your Community's Pages and Their Properties in Experience Builder, role=external, window=_blank].
```

Author: Done.

> +

Reviewer: Okay, here is where we get into trouble....
If we provide a way to get more information about this page, do we HAVE to provide ANY of the following detail?

Reviewer: If we provide this info, then why the cross-ref?

If we keep this info, I think it needs to be a separate topic, something like API Page Variation, with its own two or more topics: a REFERENCE topic that describes or lists the variations, and a TASK topic for the steps, which should never be in a concept or reference topic.

Reviewer: If we do this, the = API Community Site Structure container topic needs a reorg similar to this mockup:

= API Community Site Structure
intro to pages, components, and links (WHAT and WHY), and a brief mention of API page variations

== List of Available Community Pages and Their Lightning Components
First-level bullets only, from Home page through Member Profile page (WHAT)

== Customization Using the API and API Groups Community Pages
A Concept topic describing what sets these two pages apart from the rest of the page offerings, focusing on user benefits (WHY)

== Configure API Page Variations
Task topic: how to set up these pages (HOW)

Reviewer: The rest is copyedits only, but please use the style reference standards for list items and steps.

Author: The Salesforce docs page provides general background info about page variations, and this ACM docs page explains how page variations are used to build an ACM site similar to this template, with a page that shows different information according to whether the selected object is an individual API or an API group. Updated the text to clarify this.

** Individual API page variation: This default page variation is used when an API object is opened from the *API Card*, *API Carousel*, or *API Catalog* components.
+

> The API page variation includes the API name, icon, and description (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-header[API Header] component), its markdown documentation from Exchange (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-documentation-viewer[API Documentation Viewer] component), the API spec (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-console[API Console] component), links to download the API spec (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#spec-downloader[Spec Downloader] component), and the button to request access (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-access-requester[API Access Requester] component).

Reviewer: I think this should be a bulleted list.

Author: Good idea. Done.

** API group page variation: This page variation displays an API group when an API group object is opened from the *API Card*, *API Carousel*, or *API Catalog* components.
+

> The API group page variation includes the API group name, icon, and description (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-header[API Header] component), its markdown documentation from Exchange (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-documentation-viewer[API Documentation Viewer] component), an API carousel displaying the APIs that are part of this API group (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-carousel[API Carousel] component, with the *Show* setting configured for *Children*), and the button to request access to the API group (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#api-access-requester[API Access Requester] component).

Reviewer: This as well.

Author: Done.

+

> To configure this variation, assign a new audience to this page variation for the API group record type:

Reviewer: This needs to be a Task topic, with its own title, prereqs, steps, next steps, and See Also subtopics:
```suggestion
Configure this variation by following the steps in Configure API Page Variations.
```
And then create that task topic using that title (or some other you decide upon), a brief intro to the purpose of the task, and the following steps:

Author: Updated to move the configuration information out of the bullet list.

. In Experience Builder, use the page selector at the top left to open the *Community API Details* page.
. Click the gear icon next to the page name to open the page properties, and click the *Page variations* tab.
. Click *New page variation*, select your preferred layout, click *Next*, and enter a name for the new variation, such as *API Group*.
+

> The new page variation displays.
> . Click the gear icon next to the page name to open the page properties, and click the *Page variations* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the new page variation that displays, click the gear icon next to the page name to open the page properties, and click the *Page variations* tab.
```

Author: Done.

. On the line item for your new page variation, click the context menu, and under the *Audience* section, click *Assign*.

> . Select *New audience*, enter an audience name such as *API Group record type*, scroll down to open the *Advanced* section, and set these values:

Reviewer: Here and above, we are kind of stretching the limitations of what should be included in a single step (one user action or one action flow).

Author: True. Rewrote to separate instructions into more steps.

*** *Record type*: *CommunityApi*
*** *Operator*: *Equals*

> *** *Value*: *APIGroup*

Reviewer: For bullet list items this brief, this format, using a colon instead of a line break, is ok.

. Click *Save* and *Assign*.

> . After the new audience has been assigned, use the components palette to add the desired components to your page variation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After the new audience is assigned, use the components palette to customize your page variation.
```

Reviewer: The following four list items should be added directly after their most recent peer item above: * API and API groups details page. The existing organization with a long detour is kind of disorienting.

Author: Updated.

> * (optional) API marketing pages: Each page displays content specific to an individual API or API group (*Rich Text* component or *HTML* component).

Reviewer: Aren't all of these pages optional, as part of customization of your community?

Author: True. Updated this so that the API marketing pages are not marked as optional, and the option of not having them is instead called out in the text.

+

> Use one page for each API or API group as required. Each page is explicitly configured on the API or API group details in the community control panel as described in the page xref:publish-apis.adoc[Publish APIs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use one page for each API or API group as required. Each page is explicitly configured on the API or API group details in the community control panel as described in Publish APIs.
```
Move link to See Also.

Author: Updated.

* My applications page: Displays the member's client applications (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#application-listing[Application Listing] component).
* Applications detail page: Displays details about one client application (xref:acm-lightning-components.adoc#application-details[Application Details] component).
* Forums page: Displays components for discussion forums (*Feed* component).

> * Member profile page: Displays member profile information and allows the member to update their details (*User Profile* component).

Reviewer: Add See Also links subtopic.

Author: Done.
